# GDP-Analysis
GDP Analysis of the Indian States
The data is sourced from https://data.gov.in/, an Open Government Data (OGD) platform of India.
# ROADMAP
The first and the most important step of the roadmap is thoroughly going through the problem description of the Analysis. This would help us gain information about what we should analyze, what is important, and on what basis must the data be worked upon.
Another important step is to thoroughly go through the data provided and how it is structured. This would help us better understand how operations should be performed on the data to gain insights.
Part I: GDP Analysis of the Indian States, was divided into two subparts, Part IA and Part IIB.
For Part IA , State wise GDP was used to gain insights. Only the average growth of states for the duration 2013 14, 2014 15 and 2015 16 by taking the mean of the row '(% Growth over previous year)’ was considered. States such as West Bengal was not considered due to complete absence of data. For any missing values in the GSDP and the %Growth over the previous year were replaced by the All India mean values as filling them with zero or removing those specific states from the analysis could provide us with unrealistic data. Finally Average Growth Rate and Total GDP for all the states were plotted and insights were drawn. For Part IB , each of the states were loaded into different data frames. Union Territories were filtered, as they are governed directly by the center, not state governments; and the analysis was only for the duration 2014 15.
All the data frames were Inner Merged on the Sectors as they were consistent in the data for all the states. The NA values were replaced by zero as that indicates that in that state for that sub sector, there is no contribution.
GDP per capita for all the states is plotted. The percentage contribution of the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors as a percentage of the total GDP for all the states is the plotted.
The states are the categorized based on their Per Capita GDP. The states lying between the 85th and the 100th percentile are in C1; those between the 50th and the 85th percentiles are in C2, those between the 20th and the 50th percentiles are in C3, those equal to and below the 20th percentile are in C4. New data frames are assigned for each of the Categories.
Only the contributing subsectors of each state towards the GSDP are considered. This is to avoid redundancy and remove sub sub sectors during our analysis as the sum of all the sub sub sectors give the sub sector.
A new column i.e. Tax Subsidies that is the difference between the Tax on Products and Subsidies on Products is introduced. It is only when we add the cumulative sub sectors and the Tax and then subtract the subsidies, we get the GSDP i.e. Gross State Domestic Product=TOTAL GSVA at basic prices +Taxes on Products Subsidies on products.
A pie is then plotted accordingly that indicates us the percentage of GSDP towards which the sub sector contributes for all the categories and insights are drawn.
Here we are not considering the Taxes Subsidies segment though it is contributing to the total GSDP, as taxes and subsidies are variable and can be controlled by the government hence, they cannot be classified as a contributing sub sector.
For Part II: GDP and Education Dropout Rates , we first load the dropout rate dataset into a new data frame. We would be needing only dropout rates in education (primary, upper primary and secondary) for the year 2014 2015 for each state.
We the extract the Per capita GSDP for the year 2014 15 from our already existing dataset into a new data frame and merge it with the dropout rate dataset.
A correlation is then drawn to analyze how the Primary 14 15, Upper Primary 14 15, and Secondary 14 15 dropout rates are pitched against the Per Capita GSDP for the year 2014 15 and insights are drawn.
